The President: Thank you
very much, Vice President
Pence, for helping --
where's our Vice President --
great job, great job --
to restore American
leadership in space.
So important.
Cabinet members, General
Selva, Deputy Secretary
Shanahan, Acting
Administrator Lightfoot,
members of Congress,
and the National Space
Council, thank you
all for being here.
And especially, Mike, as I
said, I want to thank you.
I know how active you've
been and how important
this is to you.
So we appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
We also welcome astronauts
Christina Koch and
Peggy Whitson.
Christina, thank you.
Peggy, thank
you very much.
Peggy recently returned
from the International
Space Station and has now
spent an incredible 665
days in space.
You'll have to
explain that.
That sounds tough.
(laughter)
More than any other
American; more than any
woman ever.
Finally, we're honored
to be joined by Apollo
astronaut Jack Schmitt.
Exactly 45 years ago,
almost to the minute, Jack
became one of the last
Americans to land
on the moon.
Today, we pledge that
he will not be the last.
And I suspect we'll be
finding other places to
land in addition
to the moon.
What do you think, Jack?
Where's Jack?
We'll find some other
places out there?
There are a couple of
other places, right?
Mr. Schmitt:
Yes, we should.
Learn from the moon.
The President:
We'll learn.
The directive I'm signing
today will refocus
America's space program
on human exploration
and discovery.
It marks an important
step in returning American
astronauts to the moon for
the first time since 1972
for long-term
exploration and use.
This time, we will not
only plant our flag and
leave our footprint,
we will establish a
foundation for an
eventual mission to Mars.
And perhaps, someday,
to many worlds beyond.
This directive will ensure
America's space program
once again leads and
inspires all of humanity.
The pioneer spirit has
always defined America,
and we're picking that
up in many other fields.
I think you see that.
I think it's obvious.
All you have to do is look
at what's happening with
the markets and all of
the great things that
are happening.
We're leading in many
different fields again,
and it'll get more and
more obvious as
you go along.
After braving the vast
unknown and discovering
the new world, our
forefathers did not only
merely sail home -- and,
in some cases,
never to return.
They stayed, they
explored, they built, they
guided, and through that
pioneering spirit, they
imagined all of the
possibilities that few
dared to dream.
Today, the same spirit
beckons us to begin new
journeys of exploration
and discovery, to lift our
eyes all the way up to the
heavens, and once again
imagine the possibilities
waiting in those big,
beautiful stars if
we dare to dream big.
And that's what our
country is doing again:
We're dreaming big.
This is a giant step
toward that inspiring
future and toward
reclaiming America's proud
destiny in space.
And space has so much
to do with so many other
applications, including
a military application.
So we are the leader and
we're going to stay the
leader, and we're going
to increase it many-fold
I'd like to invite Vice
President Pence, if he
would, to say a few words.
He's been leading this for
me and I appreciate it.
Mr. Vice President.
The Vice President:
Mr. President, thank you.
Thank you for your
leadership and thank you
for the honor to be here
today in my capacity as
chairman of the National
Space Council for what I
believe is a momentous
occasion in the history of
American space
exploration.
To all the extraordinary
leaders who are gathered
with us today, to members
of Congress, and the
pioneers of space
exploration who are
gathered here,
we thank you.
We thank you for all
you've done to serve our
nation and expand
the horizons of human
knowledge and advance
American leadership in
outer space.
Mr. President, in
signing this space policy
directive, you are
ensuring that America will
lead in space once again.
To guide this new era of
American space leadership,
President Trump has
relaunched the National
Space Council.
And at the Council's
inaugural meeting in
October, we unanimously
approved a recommendation
to instruct NASA to return
American astronauts to the
moon, and from there to
lay a foundation for a
mission to Mars.
Today's action by
President Trump makes that
recommendation official
national policy for the
United States of America.
As everyone here knows,
establishing a renewed
American presence on the
moon is vital to achieve
our strategic objectives
and the objectives
outlined by our
National Space Council.
In pursuing these
objectives, Mr. President,
we will, as you said,
enhance our national
security and our capacity
to provide for the common
defense of the people
of the United States
of America.
We will also spur
innovation, as the space
program has always
done, Mr. President.
You've reflected on it
often, and we'll see jobs
created that we couldn't
even imagine could be
created today.
We'll also ensure, lastly,
that the rules and values
of space exploration are
written with American
leadership and
American values.
Mr. President, you've said
that the pioneer spirit
has always
defined America.
And by your action today,
with this clear vision --
returning Americans to the
moon, preparing to lead to
Mars and beyond -- you're
ensuring, Mr. President,
that America will lead in
space in the future and
for generations to come.
And I thank you for the
honor of being a
part of this.
The President: This is
very exciting and very
important for our country.
And it also happens
to mean jobs.
Jobs.
And we love
jobs too, right?
Congratulations.
(The directive is signed.)
(applause)
The President: Thank
you, everybody.
Thank you very much.